## Wheel Momentum

### Background

Wheel events are provided by the operating system and are exposed to the web as
a sequence of WheelEvent objects. One can subscribe to the events by listening
to the `wheel` event:

```js
container.addEventListener("wheel", e => console.log(e));
```

One aspect of the wheel event is that frequently they support _momentum_ events.
This means that when the user flings on a trackpad on a MacBook, for example,
the wheel events are sent both while the fingers are on the trackpad and when
the fingers are off, mimicking a momentum with friction where scroll deltas
decrease on some curve.

For a website trying to simulate their own scroll physics, the two type of
events (user initiated or OS momentum initiated) are indistinguishable.

### Proposal

The proposal is to expose whether the event is user initiated or OS momentum
initiated by adding an extra field on the WheelEvent object, called tentatively
`source` which takes one of three values:

* 'user': this event is generated due to direct user interaction.
* 'momentum': this event is generated by the OS without direct user control
* 'unknown': the browser could not reliably determine whether the event should
  be classified as 'user' or 'momentum'

Since OS provides these events, this feature would rely on the operating system
to provide the signal whether the event is momentum or user generated. If the OS
does not provide this information, it would result in the 'unknown' value.

#### MacOS

AppKit NSEvent interface seems to provide
[momentumPhase](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appkit/nsevent/momentumphase)
property to indicate when the generated event is a result of momentum.

#### Windows

Windows seems to provide a similar event
[ManipulationInertiaStarting](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.ui.xaml.uielement.manipulationinertiastarting).
